The slip angle can be interpreted as the angle between
the velocity vector of the wheel and the orientation of the wheel itself.
You're probably familiar with the sound of a tire squealing in a parking lot.
That's a result of having a slip angle.
The slip angle can be expressed as the arc tangent of
the wheel longitudinal velocity divided by the wheel lateral velocity.
The force generated by the slip angle is actually how a vehicle turns.
Otherwise, inertia would carry the vehicle off the road.
Different tires have different characteristics though.
Racing tires generate much more force from the same slip angle than conventional tires.